content/blog/2023-08-02-openmake-ii-funded/index.en.md, before:

---
title: OpenMake II funded
author: Julien Colomb and Robert Mies
date: '2023-08-02'
slug: openmake-ii-funded
categories:
  - progress report
tags:
  - grant
  - progress
  - team work
---

# OpenMake II

It is a pleasure to announce that the open make project has been funded for another 2.5 years. The work will become more practical and local.
During the next three years, we will implement a technical tool which will allow for the publication of open research hardware, and build a academic maker community inside the BUA.
You can download the full application on zenodo: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.8220973

We are one of three project that received a second round of funding by the BUA ( https://www.berlin-university-alliance.de/en/commitments/research-quality/forschung/index.html?ts=1690359598). 

# Other good news

- It is also time to congratulate Sacha Hodencq, team member as a visiting scientist, who got a permanent position in Grenoble. 
- We are also thrilled to host a conference this October: https://sosha23.sciencesconf.org where we want to share our thoughts on the best way to support open source hardware in academia.
- Also, the Turing way book is being updated to include more open hardware content. Most of it is still in review, but the licensing part is already online: https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/reproducible-research/licensing/licensing-hardware.

Commit message:

adding content, link to zenodo and banner

content/blog/2023-08-02-openmake-ii-funded/index.en.md, after:

---
title: "OpenMake II application: published and funded"
author: Julien Colomb and Robert Mies
date: '2023-08-02'
slug: openmake-ii-funded
categories:
  - progress report
tags:
  - grant
  - progress
  - team work
banner: img/banners/beachopenmake.jpg
---

# OpenMake II

It is a pleasure to announce that the open make project has been funded for another 2.5 years. The work will become more practical and local.
During the next three years, we will implement a technical tool which will allow for the publication of open research hardware, and build a academic maker community inside the Berlin University Alliance institutions.
You can download the full application on zenodo: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.8220972

We are one of three project that received a second round of [funding by the BUA]( https://www.berlin-university-alliance.de/en/commitments/research-quality/forschung/index.html?ts=1690359598). 

# Other good news

- It is also time to congratulate Sacha Hodencq, team member as a visiting scientist, who got a permanent position in Grenoble. 
- We are also thrilled to host a conference this October: https://sosha23.sciencesconf.org where we want to share our thoughts on the best way to support open source hardware in academia.
- Also, the Turing way book is being updated to include more open hardware content. Most of it is still in review, but the licensing part is already online: https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/reproducible-research/licensing/licensing-hardware.
