content/blog/2021-09-27-scope/index.en.md, before:

---
title: Scope of the Open.Make project.
author: Open.Make team
date: '2021-09-27'
slug: scope
tags:
  - team work
  - grant
  - BUA
  - collaboration
  - technology
  - scope
  - goals
---

Have you ever tried to follow instructions on how to assemble something and get stuck, either due to a lack of clarity or missing information? This can be annoying enough when you are trying to setup a new piece of furniture, but when your goal is to replicate someone's research[^1] these increases in cost can create an artificial burden on entry.  In an ideal situation, whatever research you are trying to replicate would provide you with high quality, open documentation on how to construct any (hardware) components not readily available for purchase. What constitutes quality in hardware documentation, though, is not open to investigation, which can make it difficult to review hardware designs.

A different perspective on the issue, however, is that when you are the one initially designing the (hardware) components for an experiment, you are likely yourself under time constraints, which may limit the quantity and quality of any documentation you might otherwise be able to make. In an ideal situation, not only would you have the time needed for producing such documentation, but you would also be able to follow some guidelines on how to ensure its quality.

With open access publishing, open data, and free/libre open source software becoming important pillars of responsible research and innovation (RRI) there is also a growing school of thought aiming to establish and open hardware (OH) strategy for academia, in order to address the issues described above. In this project we intend to contribute to this by investigating the current practices concerning hardware documentation in order to figure out what technical requirements should be placed on it for the sake of quality. Following that we want to prototype an evaluation system for open hardware and test it against current use cases. The last thing we want to accomplish is maximize the impact of the results from the previous two goals by reaching out to the (international) community and participate in relevant workshops and conferences, as well as standartization efforts.

[^1]: Under the assumption that starting from scratch is not a requirement

Commit message:

JC changes from hackmd
while it may look like a large rewriting, the core ideas and flow stayed the same.

content/blog/2021-09-27-scope/index.en.md, after:

---
title: Scope of the Open.Make project.
author: Open.Make team
date: '2021-09-27'
slug: scope
tags:
  - team work
  - grant
  - BUA
  - collaboration
  - technology
  - scope
  - goals
---

## The problem(s)

Have you ever tried to follow instructions on how to assemble something and get stuck, either due to a lack of clarity or missing information? This can be annoying enough when you are trying to setup a new piece of furniture, but when your goal is to replicate someone's research[^1], these annoyance create additional burden. In the worst case, the research cannot be replicated and the research process is significantlyslowed down. Accordingly, there is also a growing school of thought aiming to establish and open hardware (OH) strategy for academia. Indeed, open hardware (together with open access publishing, open data, and free/libre open source software) is becoming important pillars of responsible research and innovation [^2].  

<!--
In an ideal situation, whatever research you are trying to replicate would provide you with high quality, open documentation on how to construct any (hardware) components not readily available for purchase. What constitutes quality in hardware documentation, though, is not open to investigation, which can make it difficult to review hardware designs.
-->
On the other hand, from the perspective of the researchers designing the (hardware) components for an experiment, the situation is less than ideal. They are under strong time constraints, their hardware are constantly modified in reaction to unexpected outcomes that are inherent to the research process. In addition, they cannot expect much recognition for the documentation they would produce, and even researchers having the will and time to document their hardware may abandon, once they realise they do not know how to produce useful documentation.  

## Solutions

In this project, we intend to contribute to the establishment of an open and FAIR[^3] hardware strategy in academia, as well as improve the quality or hardware documentation. While this goal is shared with other projects and communities, we will particularly focus on the prototyping of an hardware publication (eco-)system. 

In a first phase, we will investigate the current practices concerning hardware documentation and its (exisiting and potential) importance for researchers and engineers career. On the other hand, we will consult with different communities, in order to define how the `open`and FAIR principles[^3] can be applied to hardware. This will help us frame the  technical and social requirements a hardware publication system should fulfill. 

The second phase will be the creation or the adaptation of tools allowing to prototype a hardware peer review, certification and publication system. In a third phase, we will use the prototype to publish hardware use case and disseminate our results. In parallel to defining a peer review process, we will produce guidance material to ease the documentation of hardware, in order to help researchers creating FAIR documentation from the start of their project. 

[^1]: Under the assumption that starting from scratch is not a requirement
[^2]: See https://rri-tools.eu for an overview of the responsible research and innovation importance in europe.
[^3]: The [FAIR principles](https://www.go-fair.org/fair-principles/) were created with datasets in mind, but were recently adapted to research hardware by the [FAIR Principles for Research Software (FAIR4RS Principles) RDA group](https://www.rd-alliance.org/group/fair-research-software-fair4rs-wg/outcomes/fair-principles-research-software-fair4rs?mc_cid=0a0624c6ad&mc_eid=374604702f). The principles states that research outputs should be Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable.
